README.md, before:

RHUI testing tools
==================

Contents:
--------
Scripts (scripts/, placed under /usr/bin in rpm):
    create-cf-stack.py: creates CloudForamtion stack of resources (cnf/ contains examples)
    remote-rhui-installer.sh: run remote RHUI installer
    rhui-installer.py: RHUI installer (must be run on 'Master' node)

RHUI tests (rhui-tests/, placed under /usr/share/rhui-testing-tools/rhui-tests in rpm):
    test-rhui-workflow-simple.py: simple workflow (basic test)

Requirements for running:
------------------------
1) You need to install python modules and rhui-testing-tools before using them:
2) In case you dont have it, install PIP tool:
   sudo yum install python-pip
3) Install boto (aws python interface):
   pip install boto
4) Install Python Yaml support:
   sudo yum install PyYAML
5) Install rhui-testing-tools - run in directory where this README is placed:
   python setup.py install

Basic usage:
-----------
1) Create cloudformation stack for testing:
    without rpm:
        scripts/create-cf-stack.py  --region eu-west-1
    with rpm installed:
        create-cf-stack.py --region eu-west-1

    use --rhel5, --rhel6, --rhel7, --cds, --proxy parameters to specify required configuration

    /etc/validation.yaml is used as config file. Change ec2-key and ec2-secret-key values to your keys. An example:
    ec2: {ec2-key: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA, ec2-secret-key: B0B0B0B0B0B0B0B0B0B0a1a1a1a1a1a1a1a1a1a1}
    ssh:
      ap-northeast-1: [user-ap-northeast-1, /home/user/.pem/ap-northeast-1-iam.pem]
      ap-southeast-1: [user-ap-southeast-1, /home/user/.pem/ap-southeast-1-iam.pem]
      ap-southeast-2: [user-ap-southeast-2, /home/user/.pem/ap-southeast-2-iam.pem]
      eu-west-1: [user-eu-west-1, /home/user/.pem/eu-west-1-iam.pem]
      sa-east-1: [user-sa-east-1, /home/user/.pem/sa-east-1-iam.pem]
      us-east-1: [user-us-east-1, /home/user/.pem/us-east-1-iam.pem]
      us-west-1: [user-us-west-1, /home/user/.pem/us-west-1-iam.pem]
      us-west-2: [user-us-west-2, /home/user/.pem/us-west-2-iam.pem]

2) Build actual rhui-testing-tools package (if you have no) using 'tito' tool:
    tito build --rpm --test

3) Run remote rhui installer:
    without rpm:
        scripts/remote-rhui-installer.sh &lt;master ip&gt; &lt;your-region-ssh-key&gt; &lt;RHUI iso&gt; &lt;rhui-testing-tools.rpm&gt;
    with rpm installed:
        remote-rhui-installer.sh &lt;master ip&gt; &lt;your-region-ssh-key&gt; &lt;RHUI iso&gt; &lt;rhui-testing-tools.rpm&gt;
    You can get rhui-testing-tools RPM here: https://rhuiqerpm.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html

4) Add rh entitlement certificate and (optionally) rh-sighned RPM with scripts/remote-add-rh-cert.sh, scripts/remote-add-rh-rpm.sh 
   scripts

5) Go to master
    ssh -i &lt;your-region-ssh-key&gt; &lt;master ip&gt;

6) Run simple workflow
   python /usr/share/rhui-testing-tools/rhui-tests/test_rhui_workflow_simple.py

7) You can run a whole testplan:
   cd /usr/share/rhui-testing-tools/testplans/tcms6606/
   nosetests -vv


To send results to TCMS:
-----------------------
1) run testplan with --with-xunit option

2) Scp nosetests.xml file to the local host and run script to report the result ./nitrate-test-result.py -p <testplan ID>  result_file


To do test coverage:
-------------------
1) When creating a new stack add --coverage option to remote-rhui-installer.sh

2) Run tesplans

3) After that perform following steps:

-on Master

    scp .ssh/id_rsa rhua.example.com:.ssh/
-on RHUA

    rpm -e python-moncov
    scp -r cds1.example.com:/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/pulp/cds /usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/pulp/
    scp -r cds1.example.com:/srv/pulp/cds.wsgi /srv/pulp/
    mkdir html
    coverage html -i --include="/usr/bin/rhui-manager,/usr/bin/rhui_configurator,/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/rhui/*" -d html/rhui-tools/ ; coverage html -i --include="/usr/bin/goferd,/usr/lib/gofer/*,/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/gofer/*" -d html/gofer/ ; coverage html -i --include="/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/grinder/*" -d html/grinder/ ; coverage html -i --include="/srv/pulp/cds/*,/usr/bin/pulp-admin,/usr/bin/pulp-migrate,/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/pulp/*" -d html/pulp/

Commit message:

Updating information about setting of EC2 cloud in README file.

README.md, after:

RHUI testing tools
==================

Contents:
--------
Scripts (scripts/, placed under /usr/bin in rpm):
    create-cf-stack.py: creates CloudForamtion stack of resources (cnf/ contains examples)
    remote-rhui-installer.sh: run remote RHUI installer
    rhui-installer.py: RHUI installer (must be run on 'Master' node)

RHUI tests (rhui-tests/, placed under /usr/share/rhui-testing-tools/rhui-tests in rpm):
    test-rhui-workflow-simple.py: simple workflow (basic test)

Requirements for running:
------------------------
1) You need to install python modules and rhui-testing-tools before using them:
2) In case you dont have it, install PIP tool:
   sudo yum install python-pip
3) Install boto (aws python interface):
   pip install boto
4) Install Python Yaml support:
   sudo yum install PyYAML
5) Install rhui-testing-tools - run in directory where this README is placed:
   python setup.py install

Basic usage:
-----------
1) Create cloudformation stack for testing:
    without rpm:
        scripts/create-cf-stack.py  --region eu-west-1
    with rpm installed:
        create-cf-stack.py --region eu-west-1

    use --rhel5, --rhel6, --rhel7, --cds, --proxy parameters to specify required configuration

1a) (Optional) In case it is your first time using EC2 cloud, you need to create key chain pair in webui of AWS:
    - Go to AWS webui, select your region and on dashboard page choose "Key Pairs"
    - There select Create Key Pair - you will be asked for name and than you will be offered a download of pem file.
    - You will need this name and path to this file changed in validation.yaml.

    /etc/validation.yaml is used as config file. Change ec2-key and ec2-secret-key values to your keys. An example:
    ec2: {ec2-key: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA, ec2-secret-key: B0B0B0B0B0B0B0B0B0B0a1a1a1a1a1a1a1a1a1a1}
    ssh:
      ap-northeast-1: [user-ap-northeast-1, /home/user/.pem/ap-northeast-1-iam.pem]
      ap-southeast-1: [user-ap-southeast-1, /home/user/.pem/ap-southeast-1-iam.pem]
      ap-southeast-2: [user-ap-southeast-2, /home/user/.pem/ap-southeast-2-iam.pem]
      eu-west-1: [user-eu-west-1, /home/user/.pem/eu-west-1-iam.pem]
      sa-east-1: [user-sa-east-1, /home/user/.pem/sa-east-1-iam.pem]
      us-east-1: [user-us-east-1, /home/user/.pem/us-east-1-iam.pem]
      us-west-1: [user-us-west-1, /home/user/.pem/us-west-1-iam.pem]
      us-west-2: [user-us-west-2, /home/user/.pem/us-west-2-iam.pem]

2) Build actual rhui-testing-tools package (if you have no) using 'tito' tool:
    tito build --rpm --test

3) Run remote rhui installer:
    without rpm:
        scripts/remote-rhui-installer.sh &lt;master ip&gt; &lt;your-region-ssh-key&gt; &lt;RHUI iso&gt; &lt;rhui-testing-tools.rpm&gt;
    with rpm installed:
        remote-rhui-installer.sh &lt;master ip&gt; &lt;your-region-ssh-key&gt; &lt;RHUI iso&gt; &lt;rhui-testing-tools.rpm&gt;
    You can get rhui-testing-tools RPM here: https://rhuiqerpm.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html

4) Add rh entitlement certificate and (optionally) rh-sighned RPM with scripts/remote-add-rh-cert.sh, scripts/remote-add-rh-rpm.sh 
   scripts

5) Go to master
    ssh -i &lt;your-region-ssh-key&gt; &lt;master ip&gt;

6) Run simple workflow
   python /usr/share/rhui-testing-tools/rhui-tests/test_rhui_workflow_simple.py

7) You can run a whole testplan:
   cd /usr/share/rhui-testing-tools/testplans/tcms6606/
   nosetests -vv


To send results to TCMS:
-----------------------
1) run testplan with --with-xunit option

2) Scp nosetests.xml file to the local host and run script to report the result ./nitrate-test-result.py -p <testplan ID>  result_file


To do test coverage:
-------------------
1) When creating a new stack add --coverage option to remote-rhui-installer.sh

2) Run tesplans

3) After that perform following steps:

-on Master

    scp .ssh/id_rsa rhua.example.com:.ssh/
-on RHUA

    rpm -e python-moncov
    scp -r cds1.example.com:/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/pulp/cds /usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/pulp/
    scp -r cds1.example.com:/srv/pulp/cds.wsgi /srv/pulp/
    mkdir html
    coverage html -i --include="/usr/bin/rhui-manager,/usr/bin/rhui_configurator,/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/rhui/*" -d html/rhui-tools/ ; coverage html -i --include="/usr/bin/goferd,/usr/lib/gofer/*,/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/gofer/*" -d html/gofer/ ; coverage html -i --include="/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/grinder/*" -d html/grinder/ ; coverage html -i --include="/srv/pulp/cds/*,/usr/bin/pulp-admin,/usr/bin/pulp-migrate,/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages/pulp/*" -d html/pulp/
